# Internationalization in Angular using ngx-translate

## Table of content

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Ngx-Translate](#ngx-translate)
  - [Optional steps:](#optional-steps)
    - [Create Angular project](#create-agnular-project)
    - [Add Bootstrap and flag-icons libraries](#add-bootstrap-and-flags-icons-libraries)
    - [Update the html and styles](#update-the-html-and-styles)
- [Summary](#summary)
- [Contact Me](#contact-me)

## Introduction

Internationalization (i18n) is the process of adapting software to support multiple languages and cultures. In the world of Angular, [ngx-translate](http://www.ngx-translate.com/) is a popular library that helps developers add i18n support to their projects. By using ngx-translate, developers can easily translate static text in their applications, as well as dynamic content that is generated by user interactions. With its simple API and comprehensive documentation, ngx-translate makes it easy for developers to add internationalization to their Angular projects and ensure that their applications are accessible to users around the world. In this article, we will explore how to add ngx-translate to an Angular project and how to use it to create a multilingual user interface.

## Ngx-Translate

### Optional steps

For the purposes of this tutorial, before integrating ngx-translate into an Angular project, we will have to first create one. Then we will add a styling library, such as Bootstrap and update the HTML and styles. At this stage we will ensure that the application is styled correctly and ready for the addition of i18n support. These steps are optional, but they will help to improve the overall look and feel of the application and make the integration of ngx-translate smoother and more successful.

#### **Create Agnular project**

I assume you already have the basic knowledge and you have your local environment ready to use AngularCLI. To create an empty Angular project using the AngularCLI, simply run the following command in the terminal window:

```
    ng new internation-demo
```

After running the command above, the ng client will ask you if you want to add Angular routing and what stylesheet format would you like to use. In my case, I decided to add the routing and use SCSS. In this tutorial, we won't use the routing and the UI will be created with Bootstrap, so it doesn't matter, which one will you choose.

```
? Would you like to add Angular routing? Yes
? Which stylesheet format would you like to use? SCSS
```

#### **Add Bootstrap and flags-icons libraries**

In order to create the designs with ease, we will add Bootstrap and flag-icons libraries.

To add the libraries, run the following commands in terminal opened in the root of the project:

```
npm install bootstrap
npm i flag-icons
```

Then in order use the styles, classes, etc., we will add them to the angular.json (there are other ways as well, f.e. importing them to the index.html, etc. but I personally prefer to add them to the angular.json).

Open angular.json file of your project and include:

```
"node_modules/bootstrap/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css"
```

and

```
"node_modules/flag-icons/sass/flag-icons.scss",
```

into the projects->architect->build->styles array
and

```
"node_modules/bootstrap/dist/js/bootstrap.js"
```

into projects->architect->build->scripts array

#### **Update the html and styles**

Firstly, open the `app.component.html` and remove all the automatically generated code. Let's add our basic template that will be translated later on:

```
<nav class="navbar navbar-dark bg-dark fixed-top">
  <div class="container-fluid">
    <a class="navbar-brand">Internationalization</a>
    <div class="d-flex">
      <span class="fi fi-us me-2"></span>
      <span class="fi fi-de me-2"></span>
      <span class="fi fi-it me-2"></span>
      <span class="fi fi-es me-2"></span>
    </div>
  </div>
</nav>
<div class="container-fluid mt-3">
  <h1>What is ngx-translate</h1>
  <p>
    NGX-Translate is an internationalization library for Angular. It lets you define translations for your content in
    different languages and switch between them easily.
  </p>
  <p>
    It gives you access to a service, a directive and a pipe to handle any dynamic or static content.
  </p>
  <p>
    NGX-Translate is also extremely modular. It is written in a way that makes it really easy to replace any part with a
    custom implementation in case the existing one doesn't fit your needs.
  </p>
</div>
```

##### Please consider the fact that the fixed navbar will overlay your other content, unless you add padding to the top of the body. Lets add the following code into the `styles.scss` file:

```
body {
    padding-top: 65px;
}
```

## Summary

In conclusion, [ngx-translate](http://www.ngx-translate.com/) is a valuable tool for Angular developers who want to add internationalization to their projects. Its ease of use, comprehensive documentation, and active development community make it a reliable and effective solution for adding i18n support. Whether you are building a large, complex application or a simple single-page app, ngx-translate can help you reach a global audience by making your application accessible in multiple languages. So, if you are looking for a way to add i18n support to your Angular project, consider giving ngx-translate a try.

- The source code of this article can be found in my [Github repository](https://github.com/IvanSimeonov/internationalization-demo).

## Contact Me

- :computer: [GitHub](https://github.com/IvanSimeonov)
- :iphone: [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ivannicksimeonov/)
- :coffee: [Buy Me A Coffee](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/ivssim)
